# LSTM-undergraduate-thesis
Codes for the undergraduate thesis (June, 2018) - Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks in time series prediction on the 2D It么 diffusion with circular absorbing boundaries.

## Abstract
Inspired by the research on human memory retrieval and decision-making in psychology, we present a state-of-the-art neural networks model, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), for the point-estimation-based time series analysis and prediction of decision time and response error in a 2-dimensional time-homogeneous It么 diffusion with circular absorbing boundaries. The decision time and response error are derived from the first hitting time of absorbing boundaries and its status in It么 diffusion. Our algorithm requires the model to be trained on several observed time series in order to get the structure of dynamical system behind the data. It then makes the prediction of each series separately. Thus our prediction is based on the simulation of the whole structure of a dynamical system. We train the model on series generated from different diffusion processes. During multiple-step forecast, Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and Pearson Correlation Coefficient (PCC) between real and predicted values of decision time and response error are calculated. The predictability is quantified via the maximum predictable step derived from PCC on prediction steps. We then value the predictability by discovering how RMSE and PCC change on prediction steps, as well as how maximum predictable step differs from that in other systems. It is shown that: 1. Our algorithm is not likely to suffer overfitting; 2. The enhancement of prediction step would greatly decrease the predictability; 3. One-layer LSTM behaves better than two-layers LSTM on both simulation and prediction task; 4. It is harder to predict decision time than predict response error; 5. Our LSTM algorithms could still get the structure of dynamical system behind the data under the stochasticity on parameters, showing a strong capability of within-system generalization; and 6. Our LSTM algorithms could make predictions on the series generated from another dynamic system which is similar to the system that LSTM was trained on, showing the capability of between-system generalization. Therefore, our LSTM algorithm has a great potential for predicting time series data under the dynamical system with complex systematic structure and stochastic parameters.

## Key words
LSTM neural networks, time series analysis, decision-making, time-homogeneous It么 diffusion, absorbing boundary, multiple-step forecast
